# Procedure Calling
The act of procedure calling in Wintermute allows for a perfect opportunity to
implement a concrete means of internally extending Wintermute. Since Wintermute
doesn't attempt to stick to a single platform standard, we moved from the
original implementation of D-Bus to ZeroMQ. Wintermute uses **hosts** to
collect a suite of methods whom of which contain **methods** that can be
invoked. The term **hosts** and **objects** are used interchangeably.

## Hosts
**Hosts** give Wintermute the ability to define a set of functionality and
serve it out to other instances of Wintermute without too much fuss on how
it'd discover itself in the world. The base class for hosts is
`Wintermute::Procedure::Hosts::Base`. It provides the methods required to
become a host but nothing more. Using interfaces, Wintermute allows developers
to mold their hosts to whatever situation that they see fit.

For most cases, using the `Wintermute::Procedure::Hosts::Local` would be
enough for developers that wish to communicate with Wintermute instances
on a local machine and using `Wintermute::Procedure::Hosts::Remote` would
provide their host with the capability of speaking to remote instances of
Wintermute. These two are based on the versions of IPC / RPC Wintermute
recommends, that being ZeroMQ for local and remote socket communication.

Now, some developers may wish to further extend their support of Wintermute to
different protocols like via JSON-RPC, D-Bus or even via an HTTP API. Work for
said plug-ins are looked towards in the future but would NOT be bundled by
default into Wintermute, but rather in the Wintermute networking plug-in.

## Methods
Internally, methods are the invocable functions that a host exposes to another
host. Wintermute uses the QVariant system to convert QVariant-compatible
objects into QString and then use said raw value over the specified protocol.
In code, you'd typically invoke calls on a hosts in two ways; using the
`Wintermute::Procedure::Call` object or by using the interface named.
`Wintermute::Procedure::Invokable` provides methods and logic for `QObject`s
to get the capability required to handle Call events.

### `Wintermute::Procedure::Call`
The `Call` object gives you the ability to invoke a call manually with all of
the options available to you. It's the more tedious route.

*TODO*: Add code sample.
